JTBD Data Review 4 Guides (#5800)
aws-amplify/docs: src/pages/lib/graphqlapi/query-data/q/platform/[platform].mdx

Author: @renebrandel This one only has the new content under JS and React Native inline filter for the guide. The rest of the platforms use their existing fragments without any guide language or blending.

Before you begin, you will need:
- An application connected to the API
- Data already created to view

## Read and filter your data
  
Queries are used to read data from the API and include the `List` and `Get` operations.
  
You can use both `List` and `Get` to query data in GraphQL. A `List` will get you a record of several items, such as Todo items, and does not require an ID. This is best suited for getting an overview or summary of items or can help when filtering by specific criteria across a list of items. When you want to query a single entry by ID, you would use `Get` to retrieve a specific Todo item.

<Callout>

__Note:__ The cost structure of your underlying data source can impact the cost to run some queries. For example, the `List` operation uses "scan operations" which uses more read request units than the `Get` operation. You will want to review the associated costs for these operations for your data source. In our example case here we are using Amazon DynamoDB and you can [learn more about how DynamoDB pricing is calculated](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/pricing/) on their site.

</Callout>

> [TODO]: # (Follow up on the following codegen section for better placement. May be shifted to a different section.)

Author: @renebrandel Another codegen section we had marked to revisit

</Accordion>

<br/>

<Accordion title='Custom authorization mode to query data' headingLevel='4' eyebrow='Learn more'>

Each AWS AppSync API uses a default authorization mode when you configure your app. To override this default, pass an `authMode` property. For example, this is useful when you have public reads through API Key auth and authenticated reads through IAM auth. The following examples show how you can query data with custom authorization mode:

<BlockSwitcher>
<Block name="TypeScript">

```ts
import { API } from 'aws-amplify';
import { GraphQLQuery, GRAPHQL_AUTH_MODE } from '@aws-amplify/api';
import * as queries from './graphql/queries';
import { GetTodoQuery } from './API';

const todos = await API.graphql<GraphQLQuery<GetTodoQuery>>({
  query: queries.listTodos,
  authMode: GRAPHQL_AUTH_MODE.AWS_IAM
});
```

</Block>

<Block name="JavaScript">

```js
import { API } from 'aws-amplify';
import { GRAPHQL_AUTH_MODE } from '@aws-amplify/api';
import * as queries from './graphql/queries';

const todos = await API.graphql({
  query: queries.listTodos,
  authMode: GRAPHQL_AUTH_MODE.AWS_IAM
});
```

</Block>
</BlockSwitcher>

</Accordion>

## Paginate your data
  

> As your data grows, you will want to filter and paginate at the AWS AppSync level instead of on the client. Fortunately, this is already built in to `API.graphql`, but you need to understand the schema of these queries. This is explained in the [AWS AppSync docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/appsync/latest/devguide/using-your-api.html), but here you will translate them to the `API.graphql` equivalent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As your data grows, you will want to filter and paginate your list queries. Fortunately, this is already built in to the Amplify-generated GraphQL API.
```

> You can find the input schemas in the Docs pane of the GraphQL explorer or inside your autogenerated `/graphql` folder. They look like this:

Reviewer: the content below here might be a bit too technical as the starting point. (and also duplicative with paginate section lower down.)
